# WRITTEN PROBLEMS
NB: the comma is used in the following to separate thousands. Also, in some places the combinatory formula has been substituted by combination(n,r) for simplicity's sake <br />
**[1]** <br />
  a] Using the permutation rule, and knowing that every person can only appear once, we have 10 x 9 x 8 x 7 x 6 x 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1 = 10! = 3,628,800 possible combinations. <br />
  b] Because we know that two people need to always stick close, we can consider the two of them as a unique choice when accounting for the number of possible combinations and multiply the total by 2, due to the fact that there is no imposed ordering in which the two man can sit, which means there are a total of 2 x 1 = 2 different combinations they can sit. Because of this, there are a total of (9 x 8 x 7 x 6 x 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1)*2 = 9! x 2 = 725,760 possible combinations. <br />
  c] In order to respect the constraint, we just need to alernate our choice between the two groups, which we can eaily do as shown before by using the permutation rule and alternating the choice between the two groups. This means that there are 5 x 5 x 4 x 4 x 3 x 3 x 2 x 2 x 1 x 1 = 5! x 5! = 14,400 posible combinations. <br />
  d] Using the same reasoning we did in answer b, we consider the various couples as a single entity, hence we are considering only a set of 5 elements. As before, every couple can be sit in 2 different ways, hence we need to multiply the number of combinations with the number of possible ways the couples can sit in order to account for this. Using again the permutation rule, we have that there are a total of 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1 = 5! = 120 possible combinations for a single seating pattern. Considering that we have a total of 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 = 2^5 = 32 possible seating patterns, we have a total of 120 x 32 = 3,840 possible combinations  <br />
**[2]** <br />
  This is a combinatory problem, where we are trying to pick k numbers that are lower or equal to n (the contraint does not pose a problem, because combinations are unordered). Because of this, the number of possible combinations is equal to n!/(k! x (n-k)!) <br />
**[3]** <br />
  a] We have n x m squares and we want to know how many paths there exist between (1,1) and (n,m). Because we can only move down or right, we will reach the (m,n) square in at least (n-1) + (m-1) moves (for example, if you always go down and then right once you can't do it anymore, you traverse n + m - 2 cells). As a consequence, if we want to find all possible paths, we want to know in how many different ways can we arrange these n + m - 2 moves. We can do so as such: (n+m-2)!/((n-1)!x(n+m-2-n+1)!) = (n+m-2)!/((n-1)!x(m-1)!) <br />
  b] The same as above, but we have a constraint on the first move, so, instead of -2, we have a -3 (due to the fact that, instead of making m-1 possible moves, we will make m-2), so the formula is as follows: (n+m-3)!/((n-1)!x(m-2)!) <br />
  c]  We have two possible ways to change direction: R-D-R-D or D-R-D-R. In order for it to be a valid move, we need to have the last right or down move be made respectively at (m-1,whatever) or (whatever,n-1), otherwise it would be impossible to reach the (n,m) cell. [Unfortunately was unable to resolve this exercise]. <br />
**[4]** <br />
  a] First, choosing 5 cards out of 52 is equal to combination(52,5), which is equal to 2,598,960 combinations. Then we need to calculate how many possible card combinations for the same seed there are for a hand of 5 cards and we need to multiply it by the number of possible seeds, so 4. This equals to combination(13,5)*4 = 1287 x 4 = 5,148 possible combinations, which includes both flush and straight flush. Now we can calculate the probability for one of these two possibilities as such: 5,148/2,598,960 = 0,00198. <br />
  b] First, we choose the values for which we want the couples, so which amounts to having combination(13,2) = 78 possible combinations. Then we choose the suit for the first and for the second couple, with both values being equal to combination(4,2) = 6 and then we select the fifth card between the other values, which equals to having combination(11,1) = 11 possible choices of combination(4,1) = 4 possible selections of a seed. Combining all of these, we get that the probability for having two couples is: 78x6x6x11x4/2,598,960 = 0,04754  <br />
  c] First, we have 13 possible values for such an outcome and we need to have all the seeds, so in this case we would have combination(4,4) = 1. Then, as above, we get a card between all the 12 possible available values (combination(12,1) = 12) and of one between the 4 possible seeds (combination(4,1) = 4). Because of this, we obtain that the probability of a four of a kind is: 13x1x12x4/2,598,960 = 0,00024<br />
**[5]** <br />
  In order to solve this, we need to find all possible permutations of k 1s and r-k 0s in the first r bits and divide it by the total number of combinations for r bits. First, we need to select k 1s from the N present, which is equal to combination(N,k) and then we need to select r-k 0s from the M ones present, which is equal to combination(M, r-k). Then, we need to multiply the two previously obtained values to obtain all possible permutations and then we need to divide this value by the total number of combinations for the first r bits, which is represented by combination(M+N, r). Putting all of this together, we can obtain the probability as: (combination(N,k) x combination(M, r-k))/combination(N+M, r).
**[6]** <br />
  a] There are a total of combination(8,3) x combination(6,3) = 56 x 20 = 1,120 possible combinations. <br />
  b] Like in question 1, we consider the two elements as a unique value (because we can either choose one, the other, or neither), thus we get that we have a total of combination(7,3) x combination(6,3) = 35 x 20 = 700 possible combinations. <br />
  c] We can subtract from all the possible combinations the ones in which the two are present, which means total_combinations - (combination(7,2) x combination(5,2)) = 1,120 - (21 x 10) = 1,120 - 210 = 910 possible combinations are still valid. <br />
**[7]** <br />
  a] We need to use the divider method: considering that we need to invest in all of four - meaning that we remain with 20-(4+3+2+1) = 10 million to invest - we have that: combination(10+4-1, 10) = 286, so we have 286 different ways to proceed. <br />
  b] Like above, we use the divider method for the 4 possible scenarios: (1,2,3), (1,2,4), (1,3,4), (2,3,4), and then we add the possible strategies we have calculated before, as they are also viable in this scenario. This is possible because we don't care about the order of the elements. As such, we obtain that:<br />
  combination(14+3-1,14) + combination(13+3-1,13) + combination(12+3-1,12) + combination(11+3-1,11) + 286 = 120 + 105 + 91 + 78 + 286 = 680 possible strategies. <br />
**[8]** <br />
  a] In order to find the probability, we need to find the number of students that do not take any course and divide it by the total number of students. In order to find the first quantitiy, we need to find the number of unique students that attend the courses. Because there are some overlaps (the people that attend more than 1 course), we need to subtract these from the number of attending students for the respective course in order not to overcount the total amount of students. This equals to having 27-12-5-2 = 8 unique students that study Java, 28-12-2-8 = 6 unique students that take the C++ course and 20-2-5-8 = 5 unique students that take the Python course. Summing all of these numbers together with the students that take more than one course, we get that 8+6+5+12+5+8+2 = 46 different people take the courses. Thus, the probability of someone not taking one is 1 - 46/100 = 0.54 <br />
  b] We have calculated these values above, we just need to sum them together and divide the total by the number of students: (8+6+5)/100 = 19/100 = 0.19 <br />
  c] Assuming knowing equals studies (so we are trying to calculate the chance that at least 1 attends a course), we can find this quantitiy by using the binomial distribution with arguments (2, 0.46) for x = 0 and subtract it to 1, thus obtaining the probability of at least one student attending a course. Thus, we get (here we use R to simplify the writing of the formula. To run it, just paste it into a .r file or onto an online compiler and execute it): 1 - dbinom(0,2,0.46,log=FALSE) = 0.7084. <br />
**[9]** <br />
  a] Here we have a conditional probability, due to the fact that having a success on the k-th try means that we have failed in all the previous trials. Because of this, we have to take this into account when calculating the probability for the k-th trial. Having said this, the probability that the previous k-1 trials failed is: P(k-1) = (1-1/n)^k-1. The probability of success for the k-th trial is P(k) = 1/(n-k), assuming that k starts from 0 and, thus, inherently reflects the number of discarded keys. Thus, uniting them, we have that P(k|k-1) = (1-1/n)^k-1 x 1/(n-k).(<br />
  b] The same as above, just that P(k) is different due to the keys not being removed after having been used, which means that P(k) = 1/n. Thus, P(k|k-1) = (1-1/n)^k-1 x 1/n. <br />
**[10]** <br />
  a] In order to get the probability, we need to divide the total number of legal combinations respecting the constraint by the total number of combinations. This last number is simply (1/6)^6, due to each result having the same probability of being the outcome of a dice and due to having six independent dice's rolls. For the first one, we need to calculate the different number of ways we can take 2 numbers out of 6 and the different combinations there exist in the order of the dices. The various combinations to take 2 numbers out of 6 is combination(6,2) = 15, while the various ways to order three dices out of 6 is combination(6,3) = 20. Thus, we have 15 x 20 = 300 possible ways to obtain the desired outcome and, combining it with the division by the number of total combinations possible (1/6)^6 = 1/46,656 we obtain that the probability of a such a scenario to occur is 300/46,656 = 0.0064. <br />
  b] Similarly to above, we get the number of possible combinations to take a number between 6, which is, intuitively, 6, and the number of possible ways to arrange 6 dices with three having the same value, so combination(6,3) = 20. Then we need to consider two cases: the first is the one where the remaining three dices have all different valkues from each other, the second is the one where there two dices have the same value, as this case is still legal under our constraint. Let's first calculate the first result: the possible ways to choose other three values out of the remaining 5, which is combination(5,3) = 10 and then we can arrange them in a maximum of 3 x 2 x 1 = 6 possible ways. In the second case, we calculate all the possible ways to choose 2 numbers out of 5, which is combination(5,2) = 10 and we need to calculate how different combinations there are for the dice's rolls, which is equivalent to ask in how many ways can we arrange the dices with the same value (as the remaining position would be taken by the remaining dice), which is combination(3,2) x 1 = 3. All of this means we have (3 x 10 + 10 x 6) x 20 x 6 = 90 x 20 x 6 = 10,800 possible combinations. As above, in order to get the probability we need to divide it by the number of total combinations, so the probability of getting a dice to roll only 1 number exactly thrice is: 10,800/46,656 = 0,2315.   <br />
**[11]** <br />
In order to get the probability, we need to calculate the number of possible combinations that respect the constraint and divide it by the total number of combinations possible. The number of total combinations is 12^20, following the formula for bucketing distinct objects. We now need to calculate the legal combinations: first of all, we need to find the different ways we can choose 4 informants out of 12 and the different ways we can choose 3 out of the 12-4=8 remaining informants. This is equal to combination(12,4) = 495 and combination(8,3) = 56 respectively. We then need to calculate the possible ways the letters can be assigned to them. We can use the multinomial coefficient in order to do so, knowing that we have a fixed size of 2 for the first 4 informants, of 4 for the other 3 and of 0 for the remaining ones (which we are going to ignore, as 0! = 1). Hence, the total number of ways to distribute the letters following the constraints is: 20!/((2!)^4 x (4!)^3) = 10,999,448,460,000 possible assignemnts for the given value. We now need to multiply this value with the number of possible ways we can choose the informants and divide everything by the number of possible combinations so to get the chance of this happening. Thus, we get that: <br />
(495 x 56 x 10,999,448,460,000)/12^20 = 0.00008. <br />
**[12]** <br />
We can use the binomial distribution, as every assigment is independent of the others, over m experiments with a probability 1/N (due to every outcome having the same probability and us considering only a single bucket) for the random variable X=k, where X is the first bucket. Hence: P(X=k) = binomial_coefficient(m,k) x (1/N)^k x (1-1/N)^m-k.<br />
# CODING PROBLEMS
**[14]** <br />
See reichenbach.py.
